---
license: pro
---

# Localization (i18n)

Avo leverages Rails' powerful `I18n` translations module.

# Localizing Avo

When you run `bin/rails avo:install`, Rails will not generate for you the `avo.en.yml` translation file. This file is already loaded will automatically be injected into the I18n translations module.

## Localizing resources

Let's say you want to localize a resource. All you need to do is add a `self.translation_key` class attribute in the `Resource` file. That will tell Avo to use that translation key to localize this resource. That will change the labels of that resource everywhere in Avo.

```ruby{4}
# app/avo/resources/user.rb
class Avo::Resources::User < Avo::BaseResource
  self.title = :name
  self.translation_key = 'avo.resource_translations.user'
end
```

```yaml{6-10}
# avo.es.yml
es:
  avo:
    dashboard: 'Dashboard'
    # ... other translation keys
    resource_translations:
      user:
        zero: 'usuarios'
        one: 'usuario'
        other: 'usuarios'
```

## Localizing fields

Similarly, you can even localize fields. All you need to do is add a `translation_key:` option on the field declaration.


```ruby{8}
# app/avo/resources/project.rb
class Avo::Resources::Project < Avo::BaseResource
  self.title = :name

  def fields
    field :id, as: :id
    # ... other fields
    field :files, as: :files, translation_key: 'avo.field_translations.file'
  end
end
```

```yaml{6-10}
# avo.es.yml
es:
  avo:
    dashboard: 'Dashboard'
    # ... other translation keys
    field_translations:
      file:
        zero: 'archivos'
        one: 'archivo'
        other: 'archivos'
```

## Localizing buttons label

<BetaStatus label="Beta" />

The `avo.save` configuration applies to all save buttons. If you wish to customize the localization for a specific resource, such as `Avo::Resources::Product`, you can achieve this by:

```yml
---
en:
  avo:
    resource_translations:
      product:
        save: "Save the product!"
```

## Setting the locale

Setting the locale for Avo is pretty simple. Just use the `config.locale = :en` config attribute. Default is `nil` and will fall back to whatever you have configured in as `config.i18n.default_locale` in `application.rb`.

```ruby{2}
Avo.configure do |config|
  config.locale = :en # default is nil
end
```

That will change the locale only for Avo requests. The rest of your app will still use your locale set in `application.rb`. If you wish to change the locale for Avo, you can use the `set_locale=pt-BR` param. That will set the default locale for Avo until you restart your server.

Suppose you wish to change the locale only for one request using the `force_locale=pt-BR` param. That will set the locale for that request and keep the `force_locale` param in all links while you navigate Avo. Remove that param when you want to go back to your configured `default_locale`.


Related:
- Check out our guide for [multilingual records](guides/multilingual-content).

## Customize the locale

If there's anything in the locale files that you would like to change, run `bin/rails generate avo:locales` to generate the locale files.

These provide a guide for you for when you want to add more languages.

If you do translate Avo in a new language please consider contributing it to the [main repo](https://github.com/avo-hq/avo). Thank you

## FAQ

If you try to localize your resources and fields and it doesn't seem to work, please be aware of the following.

### The I18n.t method defaults to the name of that field/resource

Internally the localization works like so `I18n.t(translation_key, count: 1, default: default)` where the `default` is the computed field/resource name. So check the structure of your translation keys.

```yaml
# config/locales/avo.pt-BR.yml
pt-BR:
  avo:
    field_translations:
      file:
        zero: 'arquivos'
        one: 'arquivo'
        other: 'arquivos'
    resource_translations:
      user:
        zero: 'usuários'
        one: 'usuário'
        other: 'usuários'
```

### Using a Route Scope for Localization

To implement a route scope for localization within Avo, refer to [this guide](guides/localization-scope). It provides step-by-step instructions on configuring your routes to include a locale scope, enabling seamless localization handling across your application.

