---
outline: [2,3]
---

# Localization scope 🌍✨

Implementing a localization scope in Avo allows you to seamlessly adapt your application to support multiple languages, enhancing the user experience. This recipe will guide you through the steps to configure a locale scope, ensuring your application dynamically sets and respects the user's preferred language. Let's dive in!

## 1. Mount Avo within a `:locale` scope

<!-- @include: ./../common/mount_avo_under_locale_scope_common.md-->

## 2. Setup `default_url_options`

To ensure that the `:locale` scope is consistently included in generated URLs, it must be explicitly added to Avo's `default_url_options` configuration. This step is vital for preserving the user's language preferences throughout the application. Without this configuration, the locale parameter might be omitted, leading to unexpected language switches or inconsistent localization behavior.

Here's how you can set it up:

```ruby{4}
# config/avo.rb
Avo.configure do |config|
  # Add :locale to default URL options
  config.default_url_options = [:locale]
end
```

This configuration guarantees that every URL generated by Avo includes the `:locale` parameter, aligning navigation with the user's language preferences.

## 3. Apply the `locale` Scope

To properly handle localization within Avo, you'll need to ensure the `locale` parameter is respected throughout the request.

:::info
If you've already ejected the `Avo::ApplicationController`, you can skip the ejection step below.
:::

### Eject the `Avo::ApplicationController`

Run the following command to eject the `Avo::ApplicationController`:

```bash
rails generate avo:eject --controller application_controller
```

This command generates a customizable version of the `Avo::ApplicationController`, allowing you to override default behaviors.

### Override the `set_avo_locale` method

Next, override the `set_avo_locale` method to ensure that the `locale` parameter is applied throughout the request lifecycle. Update your controller as follows:

```ruby{5-7}
# app/controllers/avo/application_controller.rb

module Avo
  class ApplicationController < BaseApplicationController
    def set_avo_locale(&action)
      I18n.with_locale(params[:locale], &action)
    end
  end
end
```

This implementation uses `I18n.with_locale` to set the desired locale for the duration of the request, ensuring consistent localization behavior across Avo's interface.
